---
layout: post
title: Fear of failure
date: 2020-04-26 11:15 +0545
---


There are things that I never wanted to share, but I guess time has come that I need to be open about my mistakes, failures so that the people, especially the young ones can learn from it. Even I want to learn from my past mistakes and try to do my bit to rectify those mistakes as I move forward in life. During this coronavirus lockdown, I have finished working on solving some python programming problems, revised linear algebra, statistics, prepared study materials for my high school students, and just finished reading my best book Statistical Physics of Biomolecules. These are the things I had always left pending because either I had been too lazy or too busy, but I feel so refreshed that finally, I have finished some works on my bucket list. I had always been a little above average student, worked hard, and enjoyed studying during my school days. I have never hated studying and I am happy that such habit has stayed with me till now. But, after high school, my marks dipped drastically. Some of the reasons could have been doing a full-time job, leaving my parents and staying alone, and so on. But, I was still studying and working hard. Even my teachers at University used to query me and ask me why despite working so hard and paying attention during classes, I was not getting marks that I deserved. I used to ask them questions, I thought I understood everything in class, but why I struggled during exams? I was not failing my exams, but I was not getting excellent grades either. And, the main reason was - I always had this mental blockage during exams about failure. I had this fear of failure which always crept in during my exam time. I thought about how my life will turn in if I do badly in this exam, or worse get failed. I used to study all night rigorously while I was thinking about such things. Staying alone and rote learning questions being asked during the exam made it even worse. I used to tremble with fear while giving the test, even though I knew that I had prepared for it. I wish I was able to share my issue with my peers, parents, or even seek help from a mental doctor or anyone. But, I did not. It was such a huge mistake from my part, I was young and naive back then. So, my suggestion for any such students who have similar issues to seek help immediately. Talk to your parents, teachers, or if necessary consult with your doctor. Don't let anything come in between your success and learning adventure. 
